docs/content/0.index.md, before:

---
title: 'The Intuitive Web Framework'
head.titleTemplate: 'Nuxt: %s'
description: 'Build your next Vue.js application with confidence using Nuxt. An open source framework under MIT license that makes web development simple and powerful.'
showcasesListId: 505
---

::home-hero
---
topButtonText: 'Announcing 3.0 stable'
topButtonLink: '/v3'
primaryButtonText: 'Get started'
primaryButtonLink: '/docs/getting-started/introduction'
secondaryButtonText: 'Open on GitHub'
secondaryButtonLink: 'https://github.com/nuxt/framework'
---

#title
The Intuitive Web Framework

#titleAnimationWord
today.

#description
Build your next Vue.js application with confidence using Nuxt. An open source framework under MIT license that makes web development simple and powerful.
::


::home-section{visible}
#title
Deliver an optimized [User Experience]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
How a user interacts with and experiences your website will determine your impact. Utility, ease of use, and efficiency are key. **Nuxt is built with a set of features that make this possible.**
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-fast'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Fast and Furious
  #description
  Optimized with code-splitting, tree-shaking, optimized cold-start, link prefetching, payload extraction, just to name a few. Fast by default so you can focus on building.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-hybrid'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  On-demand Rendering
  #description
  Decide what rendering strategy at the route level: SSR, SSG, CSR, ISR, ESR, SWR.
  Build any kind of website or web application with optimized performance in mind.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-seo'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  SEO & Web Vitals
  #description
  By leveraging server-side rendering, ESM format and optimized images, Nuxt websites are indexable by search engines while giving the feeling of an app to the end-users.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
to: "/showcase"
titleSizeClass: 'text-2xl font-semibold md:text-3xl lg:text-4xl'
---
#title
Trusted by world-class companies
#description
Explore our selection of websites & applications made with Nuxt. F-500 companies, creative agencies and freelancers all trust us.
#link
Discover our showcase
#extra
:::home-companies-carousel
:::
::

::home-section
---
buttons:
  - label: 'Try it now'
    size: 'xl'
    variant: 'primary-gradient'
    to: '/docs/getting-started/installation'
---
#title
Discover a new [Developer Experience]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Developers deserve solutions as well designed as non-technical people. Our focus is to empower Vue developers to ship great softwares with confidence.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-plug-and-play'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Plug & Play
  #description
  Unlock features by creating folders and files with the [most intuitive directory structure]{.font-semibold} made for developers and teams.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-effortless'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Automation
  #description
  Repetitive tasks are [automated]{.font-semibold}: auto-imports, code-splitting, typings, minification, bundling for production. and more.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-batteries'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Batteries Included
  #description
  Data fetching, state management, meta tags helpers, route guards, cookies, error handling, bundle analyzer and more.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
titleSizeClass: 'text-2xl font-semibold md:text-3xl lg:text-4xl'
---
#title
Trusted by the world wide web
#description
Their opinions are valuable and worth sharing to everyone.
#cards
  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: evan
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/youyuxi'
  ---
  #author
  Evan You
  #job
  Creator of Vue.js and Vite
  #quote
  Nuxt offers a compelling solution and a great ecosystem to help you ship fullstack Vue apps that are performant and SEO friendly. The flexibility to choose between SSR and SSG is icing on the cake.
  :::

  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: sarah
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/sarah_edo'
  ---
  #author
  Sarah Drasner
  #job
  Director of Engineering and Web Infrastructure, Google
  #quote
  Nuxt has outstanding developer productivity, experience, and performance right out of the gate!
  There’s so much attention to detail, ensuring teams have everything at their fingertips to productively build all manners of applications.
  :::

  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: addy
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/addyosmani'
  ---
  #author
  Addy Osmani
  #job
  Chief Engineer of Chrome
  #quote
  Nuxt is a fantastic choice for teams building a production-grade product on the web. It aims to bake in performance best-practices while maintaining excellent Vue.js DX.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
  buttons:
  - label: 'Explore Nuxt modules'
    size: 'xl'
    variant: 'primary-gradient'
    to: '/modules'
---
#title
Ship faster with [Nuxt modules]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Nuxt is made with a robust plugin system. Integrate with popular CMS or UI libraries with one line of code. With more than 15M monthly downloads and 1K contributors, Nuxt modules are your day to day companions.
#link
Explore Nuxt modules
#extra
  ::home-modules-list
  ::
::

::home-section
---
cardsClass: 'lg:grid-cols-4'
---
#title
A community of [Web builders]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-300}
#description
Nuxt is composed of web builders all over the world who like to craft beautiful user experiences with Vue.js.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:npm'
  to: 'https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  56M
  #description
  npm downloads
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:discord'
  to: 'https://discord.com/invite/ps2h6QT'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  20k
  #description
  Discord members
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:github'
  to: 'https://github.com/nuxt'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  55k
  #description
  GitHub stars
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:twitter'
  to: 'https://twitter.com/nuxt_js'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  76k
  #description
  Twitter followers
  :::
::

::home-section
---
buttons:
- label: 'Discover our solutions'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'primary-gradient'
  to: '/support/solutions'
---
#title
A solution to cover [all your needs]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Developers deserve solutions as well designed as non-technical people. Our focus is to empower Vue developers to ship great softwares with confidence.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-official-agency'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  to: '/support/agencies'
  ---
  #title
  Official agency partners
  #description
  A carefully built network of trusted agencies from all over the world!
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-nuxt-expert'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  to: '/support/solutions'
  ---
  #title
  Nuxt experts network
  #description
  A network of freelance from all over the world, certified by the NuxtLabs team !
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-community-support'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  to: '/support/solutions'
  ---
  #title
  Community support
  #description
  More than 2000 active contributors on multiple platforms are here to help !
  :::
::

:::home-section{ .mb-20 }
---
sectionAlign: 'row'
buttons:
- label: 'Get started'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'primary-gradient'
  to: '/docs/getting-started/introduction'
- label: 'Explore Examples'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'secondary'
  to: '/docs/examples/essentials/hello-world'
---
#sectionTitle
GETTING STARTED
#title
Start your Nuxt Journey
#description
Learn everything you need to know, from beginner to master.
:::

Commit message:

docs: add back the newsletter (#10032)
* docs: add newsletter sections

* chore: update

* chore: add newsletter page

* chore: bump version of theme

* chore: update theme

* chore: up

* chore(docs): update to edge nuxt/nitropack

Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/content/0.index.md, after:

---
title: 'The Intuitive Web Framework'
head.titleTemplate: 'Nuxt: %s'
description: 'Build your next Vue.js application with confidence using Nuxt. An open source framework under MIT license that makes web development simple and powerful.'
showcasesListId: 505
---

::home-hero
---
topButtonText: 'Announcing 3.0 stable'
topButtonLink: '/v3'
primaryButtonText: 'Get started'
primaryButtonLink: '/docs/getting-started/introduction'
secondaryButtonText: 'Open on GitHub'
secondaryButtonLink: 'https://github.com/nuxt/framework'
---

#title
The Intuitive Web Framework

#titleAnimationWord
today.

#description
Build your next Vue.js application with confidence using Nuxt. An open source framework under MIT license that makes web development simple and powerful.
::


::home-section{visible}
#title
Deliver an optimized [User Experience]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
How a user interacts with and experiences your website will determine your impact. Utility, ease of use, and efficiency are key. **Nuxt is built with a set of features that make this possible.**
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-fast'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Fast and Furious
  #description
  Optimized with code-splitting, tree-shaking, optimized cold-start, link prefetching, payload extraction, just to name a few. Fast by default so you can focus on building.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-hybrid'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  On-demand Rendering
  #description
  Decide what rendering strategy at the route level: SSR, SSG, CSR, ISR, ESR, SWR.
  Build any kind of website or web application with optimized performance in mind.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/ux-seo'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  SEO & Web Vitals
  #description
  By leveraging server-side rendering, ESM format and optimized images, Nuxt websites are indexable by search engines while giving the feeling of an app to the end-users.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
to: "/showcase"
titleSizeClass: 'text-2xl font-semibold md:text-3xl lg:text-4xl'
---
#title
Trusted by world-class companies
#description
Explore our selection of websites & applications made with Nuxt. F-500 companies, creative agencies and freelancers all trust us.
#link
Discover our showcase
#extra
:::home-companies-carousel
:::
::

::home-section
---
buttons:
  - label: 'Try it now'
    size: 'xl'
    variant: 'primary-gradient'
    to: '/docs/getting-started/installation'
---
#title
Discover a new [Developer Experience]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Developers deserve solutions as well designed as non-technical people. Our focus is to empower Vue developers to ship great softwares with confidence.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-plug-and-play'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Plug & Play
  #description
  Unlock features by creating folders and files with the [most intuitive directory structure]{.font-semibold} made for developers and teams.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-effortless'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Automation
  #description
  Repetitive tasks are [automated]{.font-semibold}: auto-imports, code-splitting, typings, minification, bundling for production. and more.
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/dx-batteries'
    width: '341'
    height: '164'
    format: 'svg'
  ---
  #title
  Batteries Included
  #description
  Data fetching, state management, meta tags helpers, route guards, cookies, error handling, bundle analyzer and more.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
titleSizeClass: 'text-2xl font-semibold md:text-3xl lg:text-4xl'
---
#title
Trusted by the world wide web
#description
Their opinions are valuable and worth sharing to everyone.
#cards
  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: evan
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/youyuxi'
  ---
  #author
  Evan You
  #job
  Creator of Vue.js and Vite
  #quote
  Nuxt offers a compelling solution and a great ecosystem to help you ship fullstack Vue apps that are performant and SEO friendly. The flexibility to choose between SSR and SSG is icing on the cake.
  :::

  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: sarah
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/sarah_edo'
  ---
  #author
  Sarah Drasner
  #job
  Director of Engineering and Web Infrastructure, Google
  #quote
  Nuxt has outstanding developer productivity, experience, and performance right out of the gate!
  There’s so much attention to detail, ensuring teams have everything at their fingertips to productively build all manners of applications.
  :::

  :::home-testimonials-item
  ---
  authorImg: addy
  authorUrl: 'https://twitter.com/addyosmani'
  ---
  #author
  Addy Osmani
  #job
  Chief Engineer of Chrome
  #quote
  Nuxt is a fantastic choice for teams building a production-grade product on the web. It aims to bake in performance best-practices while maintaining excellent Vue.js DX.
  :::
::

::home-section
---
  buttons:
  - label: 'Explore Nuxt modules'
    size: 'xl'
    variant: 'primary-gradient'
    to: '/modules'
---
#title
Ship faster with [Nuxt modules]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Nuxt is made with a robust plugin system. Integrate with popular CMS or UI libraries with one line of code. With more than 15M monthly downloads and 1K contributors, Nuxt modules are your day to day companions.
#link
Explore Nuxt modules
#extra
  ::home-modules-list
  ::
::

::home-section
---
cardsClass: 'lg:grid-cols-4'
---
#title
A community of [Web builders]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-300}
#description
Nuxt is composed of web builders all over the world who like to craft beautiful user experiences with Vue.js.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:npm'
  to: 'https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  60M
  #description
  npm downloads
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:discord'
  to: 'https://discord.com/invite/ps2h6QT'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  20k
  #description
  Discord members
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:github'
  to: 'https://github.com/nuxt'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  60k
  #description
  GitHub stars
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  icon: 'fa-brands:twitter'
  to: 'https://twitter.com/nuxt_js'
  titleClass: 'text-5xl font-semibold u-text-gray-900'
  ---
  #title
  78k
  #description
  Twitter followers
  :::
::

::home-section
#title
The Nuxt Newsletter
#description
Get the latest releases and news about Nuxt and its ecosystem with our newsletter.
#extra
  :newsletter-form{.pt-6}
::


::home-section
---
buttons:
- label: 'Discover our solutions'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'primary-gradient'
  to: '/support/solutions'
---
#title
A solution to cover [all your needs]{.text-transparent .bg-clip-text .bg-gradient-to-r .from-green-400 .to-teal-400}
#description
Developers deserve solutions as well designed as non-technical people. Our focus is to empower Vue developers to ship great softwares with confidence.
#cards
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-official-agency'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  to: '/support/agencies'
  ---
  #title
  Official agency partners
  #description
  A carefully built network of trusted agencies from all over the world!
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-nuxt-expert'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  to: '/support/solutions'
  ---
  #title
  Nuxt experts network
  #description
  A network of freelance from all over the world, certified by the NuxtLabs team !
  :::
  :::card-item
  ---
  headerClass: 'justify-start px-4 pt-4 sm:px-6'
  contentClass: 'gap-y-2'
  image:
    path: '/assets/home/needs-community-support'
    width: '52'
    height: '58'
    format: 'png'
  to: '/support/solutions'
  ---
  #title
  Community support
  #description
  More than 2000 active contributors on multiple platforms are here to help !
  :::
::

:::home-section{ .mb-20 }
---
sectionAlign: 'row'
buttons:
- label: 'Get started'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'primary-gradient'
  to: '/docs/getting-started/introduction'
- label: 'Explore Examples'
  size: 'xl'
  variant: 'secondary'
  to: '/docs/examples/essentials/hello-world'
---
#sectionTitle
GETTING STARTED
#title
Start your Nuxt Journey
#description
Learn everything you need to know, from beginner to master.
:::
