README.md, before:

<h1>
  <img src="./.github/logo.svg" height="60" >
 </h1>

 <p>
  <a href="https://github.com/nuxt/framework/actions?query=branch%3Amain+event%3Apush"><img src="https://github.com/nuxt/framework/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push" alt="CI Status"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/dm/nuxt3" alt="Downloads"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/v/nuxt3" alt="Version"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/license/nuxt3" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.nuxtjs.org/"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge/Discord/join-us/7289DA" alt="Discord"></a>
 </p>

Welcome to Nuxt 3 repository ✨

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>
    <h2>📖 Documentation</h2>
    <p>
      Read <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org">Online Docs</a>.
    </p>
  </td>
  <td>
    <h2>🐞 Reporting bugs</h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/reporting-bugs">Reporting Bugs</a> page.</p>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <h2>💡 Suggestions </h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/contribution">Contribution</a> page.
    </p>
  </td>
  <td>
    <h2>❔ Questions</h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/getting-help">Getting Help</a> page.
    </p>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 💻 Development

- Clone repository
- Ensure you have the latest LTS version of Node.js installed
- Install dependencies with `npx yarn install`
- Run `npx yarn stub` to activate passive development
- Open playground with `npx yarn play`

Learn more about in our documentation on [how to contribute to Nuxt](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/contribution).

## 📖 Documentation

We are using [Docus](https://nuxtlabs.com/docus) for documentation (*It is planned to be open sourced it in the following weeks*).

We recommend to install the [Docus extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NuxtLabs.docus) for VS Code.

- Go into the docs directory: `cd docs`
- Install docs dependencies with `npx yarn install`
- Run `npx yarn dev` to start Docus in development mode

The pages are generated from [docs/content/](./docs/content), you can start editing them to start helping us on documenting Nuxt 3 💚

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt.js/blob/dev/LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: add stub instruction to docs README section (#3551)

README.md, after:

<h1>
  <img src="./.github/logo.svg" height="60" >
 </h1>

 <p>
  <a href="https://github.com/nuxt/framework/actions?query=branch%3Amain+event%3Apush"><img src="https://github.com/nuxt/framework/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push" alt="CI Status"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/dm/nuxt3" alt="Downloads"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/v/nuxt3" alt="Version"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt3"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/license/nuxt3" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.nuxtjs.org/"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge/Discord/join-us/7289DA" alt="Discord"></a>
 </p>

Welcome to Nuxt 3 repository ✨

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>
    <h2>📖 Documentation</h2>
    <p>
      Read <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org">Online Docs</a>.
    </p>
  </td>
  <td>
    <h2>🐞 Reporting bugs</h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/reporting-bugs">Reporting Bugs</a> page.</p>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <h2>💡 Suggestions </h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/contribution">Contribution</a> page.
    </p>
  </td>
  <td>
    <h2>❔ Questions</h2>
    <p>
      Check out <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/getting-help">Getting Help</a> page.
    </p>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 💻 Development

- Clone repository
- Ensure you have the latest LTS version of Node.js installed
- Install dependencies with `npx yarn install`
- Run `npx yarn stub` to activate passive development
- Open playground with `npx yarn play`

Learn more about in our documentation on [how to contribute to Nuxt](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/community/contribution).

## 📖 Documentation

We are using [Docus](https://nuxtlabs.com/docus) for documentation (*It is planned to be open sourced it in the following weeks*).

We recommend to install the [Docus extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NuxtLabs.docus) for VS Code.

- Run `npx yarn stub` once in the root directory
- Go into the docs directory: `cd docs`
- Install docs dependencies with `npx yarn install`
- Run `npx yarn dev` to start Docus in development mode

The pages are generated from [docs/content/](./docs/content), you can start editing them to start helping us on documenting Nuxt 3 💚

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt.js/blob/dev/LICENSE)
