docs/2.guide/3.going-further/6.nuxt-app.md, before:

---
title: "NuxtApp"
description: "In Nuxt 3, you can access runtime app context within composables, components and plugins."
---

# NuxtApp

In Nuxt 3, you can access runtime app context within composables, components and plugins. In Nuxt 2, this was referred to as [Nuxt context](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/internals-glossary/context#the-context).

## Accessing NuxtApp

Within composables, plugins and components you can access `nuxtApp` with `useNuxtApp`:

```js
function useMyComposable () {
  const nuxtApp = useNuxtApp()
  // access runtime nuxt app instance
}
```

Plugins also receive `nuxtApp` as the first argument for convenience. [Read more about plugins.](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins)

::alert{icon=👉}
**`useNuxtApp` (on the server) only works during `setup`, inside Nuxt plugins or `Lifecycle Hooks`**.
::

## Providing Helpers

You can provide helpers to be usable across all composables and application. This usually happens within a Nuxt plugin.

```js
const nuxtApp = useNuxtApp()
nuxtApp.provide('hello', (name) => `Hello ${name}!`)

console.log(nuxtApp.$hello('name')) // Prints "Hello name!"
```

In Nuxt 2 plugins, this was referred to as [inject function](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/directory-structure/plugins#inject-in-root--context).

::alert{icon=👉}
It is possible to inject helpers by returning an object with a `provide` key. See the [plugins documentation](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins) for more information.
::

Commit message:

docs: update to new website (#23743)
Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/2.guide/3.going-further/6.nuxt-app.md, after:

---
title: "NuxtApp"
description: "In Nuxt 3, you can access runtime app context within composables, components and plugins."
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts
---

In Nuxt 3, you can access runtime app context within composables, components and plugins.

::read-more{to="https://v2.nuxt.com/docs/internals-glossary/context#the-context" target="_blank"}
In Nuxt 2, this was referred to as **Nuxt context**.
::

## Nuxt App Interface

::read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/internals#the-nuxtapp-interface"}
Jump over the `NuxtApp` interface documentation.
::

## Accessing NuxtApp

Within composables, plugins and components you can access `nuxtApp` with [`useNuxtApp()`](/docs/api/composables/use-nuxt-app):

```ts [composables/useMyComposable.ts]
export function useMyComposable () {
  const nuxtApp = useNuxtApp()
  // access runtime nuxt app instance
}
```

Plugins also receive `nuxtApp` as the first argument for convenience.

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins"}

## Providing Helpers

You can provide helpers to be usable across all composables and application. This usually happens within a Nuxt plugin.

```ts
const nuxtApp = useNuxtApp()
nuxtApp.provide('hello', (name) => `Hello ${name}!`)

console.log(nuxtApp.$hello('name')) // Prints "Hello name!"
```

::read-more{to="/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins#providing-helpers"}
It is possible to inject helpers by returning an object with a `provide` key in plugins.
::

::read-more{to="https://v2.nuxt.com/docs/directory-structure/plugins#inject-in-root--context" target="_blank"}
In Nuxt 2 plugins, this was referred to as **inject function**.
::
