docs/7.migration/20.module-authors.md, before:

# Modules

## Module Compatibility

Nuxt 3 has a basic backward compatibility layer for Nuxt 2 modules using `@nuxt/kit` auto wrappers. But there are usually steps to follow to make modules compatible with Nuxt 3 and sometimes, using Nuxt Bridge is required for cross-version compatibility.

We have prepared a [Dedicated Guide](/docs/guide/going-further/modules) for authoring Nuxt 3 ready modules using `@nuxt/kit`. Currently best migration path is to follow it and rewrite your modules. Rest of this guide includes preparation steps if you prefer to avoid a full rewrite yet making modules compatible with Nuxt 3.

::alert
You can check for a list of Nuxt 3 ready modules from [Nuxt Modules](/modules).
::

### Plugin Compatibility

Nuxt 3 plugins are **not** fully backward compatible with Nuxt 2.

### Vue Compatibility

Plugins or components using the Composition API need exclusive Vue 2 or Vue 3 support.

By using [vue-demi](https://github.com/vueuse/vue-demi) they should be compatible with both Nuxt 2 and 3.

## Module Migration

When Nuxt 3 users add your module, you will not have access to the module container (`this.*`) so you will need to use utilities from `@nuxt/kit` to access the container functionality.

### Test with `@nuxt/bridge`

Migrating to `@nuxt/bridge` is the first and most important step for supporting Nuxt 3.

If you have a fixture or example in your module, add `@nuxt/bridge` package to its config (see [example](/docs/bridge/overview#update-nuxtconfig))

### Migrate from CommonJS to ESM

Nuxt 3 natively supports TypeScript and ECMAScript Modules. Please check [Native ES Modules](/docs/guide/concepts/esm) for more info and upgrading.

### Ensure Plugins Default Export

If you inject a Nuxt plugin that does not have `export default` (such as global Vue plugins), ensure you add `export default () => { }` to the end of it.

::code-group

```js [Before]
// ~/plugins/vuelidate.js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuelidate from 'vuelidate'

Vue.use(Vuelidate)
```

```js [After]
// ~/plugins/vuelidate.js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuelidate from 'vuelidate'

Vue.use(Vuelidate)

export default () => { }
```

::

### Avoid Runtime Modules

With Nuxt 3, Nuxt is now a build-time-only dependency, which means that modules shouldn't attempt to hook into the Nuxt runtime.

Your module should work even if it's only added to [`buildModules`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt.config#buildmodules) (instead of `modules`). For example:

- Avoid updating `process.env` within a Nuxt module and reading by a Nuxt plugin; use [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt.config#publicruntimeconfig) instead.
- (*) Avoid depending on runtime hooks like `vue-renderer:*` for production
- (*) Avoid adding `serverMiddleware` by importing them inside the module. Instead, add them by referencing a file path so that they are independent of the module's context

(*) Unless it is for `nuxt dev` purpose only and guarded with `if (nuxt.options.dev) { }`.

::alert{type=info icon=🔎}
Continue reading about Nuxt 3 modules in the [Modules guide](/docs/guide/going-further/modules).
::

### Use TypeScript (Optional)

While it is not essential, most of the Nuxt ecosystem is shifting to use TypeScript, so it is highly recommended to consider migration.

::alert{icon=💡}
You can start migration by renaming `.js` files, to `.ts`. TypeScript is designed to be progressive!
::

::alert{icon=💡}
You can use TypeScript syntax for Nuxt 2 and 3 modules and plugins without any extra dependencies.
::

Commit message:

docs: update to new website (#23743)
Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/7.migration/20.module-authors.md, after:

---
title: Modules
description: 'Learn how to migrate from Nuxt 2 to Nuxt 3 modules.'
---

## Module Compatibility

Nuxt 3 has a basic backward compatibility layer for Nuxt 2 modules using `@nuxt/kit` auto wrappers. But there are usually steps to follow to make modules compatible with Nuxt 3 and sometimes, using Nuxt Bridge is required for cross-version compatibility.

We have prepared a [Dedicated Guide](/docs/guide/going-further/modules) for authoring Nuxt 3 ready modules using `@nuxt/kit`. Currently best migration path is to follow it and rewrite your modules. Rest of this guide includes preparation steps if you prefer to avoid a full rewrite yet making modules compatible with Nuxt 3.

::callout{icon="i-ph-puzzle-piece-duotone" to="/modules"}
Explore Nuxt 3 compatible modules.
::

### Plugin Compatibility

Nuxt 3 plugins are **not** fully backward compatible with Nuxt 2.

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins"}

### Vue Compatibility

Plugins or components using the Composition API need exclusive Vue 2 or Vue 3 support.

By using [vue-demi](https://github.com/vueuse/vue-demi) they should be compatible with both Nuxt 2 and 3.

## Module Migration

When Nuxt 3 users add your module, you will not have access to the module container (`this.*`) so you will need to use utilities from `@nuxt/kit` to access the container functionality.

### Test with `@nuxt/bridge`

Migrating to `@nuxt/bridge` is the first and most important step for supporting Nuxt 3.

If you have a fixture or example in your module, add `@nuxt/bridge` package to its config (see [example](/docs/bridge/overview#update-nuxtconfig))

### Migrate from CommonJS to ESM

Nuxt 3 natively supports TypeScript and ECMAScript Modules. Please check [Native ES Modules](/docs/guide/concepts/esm) for more info and upgrading.

### Ensure Plugins Default Export

If you inject a Nuxt plugin that does not have `export default` (such as global Vue plugins), ensure you add `export default () => { }` to the end of it.

::code-group

```js [Before]
// ~/plugins/vuelidate.js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuelidate from 'vuelidate'

Vue.use(Vuelidate)
```

```js [After]
// ~/plugins/vuelidate.js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuelidate from 'vuelidate'

Vue.use(Vuelidate)

export default () => { }
```

::

### Avoid Runtime Modules

With Nuxt 3, Nuxt is now a build-time-only dependency, which means that modules shouldn't attempt to hook into the Nuxt runtime.

Your module should work even if it's only added to [`buildModules`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt.config#buildmodules) (instead of `modules`). For example:

- Avoid updating `process.env` within a Nuxt module and reading by a Nuxt plugin; use [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt.config#publicruntimeconfig) instead.
- (*) Avoid depending on runtime hooks like `vue-renderer:*` for production
- (*) Avoid adding `serverMiddleware` by importing them inside the module. Instead, add them by referencing a file path so that they are independent of the module's context

(*) Unless it is for `nuxt dev` purpose only and guarded with `if (nuxt.options.dev) { }`.

::callout
Continue reading about Nuxt 3 modules in the [Modules Author Guide](/docs/guide/going-further/modules).
::

### Use TypeScript (Optional)

While it is not essential, most of the Nuxt ecosystem is shifting to use TypeScript, so it is highly recommended to consider migration.

::callout
You can start migration by renaming `.js` files, to `.ts`. TypeScript is designed to be progressive!
::

::callout
You can use TypeScript syntax for Nuxt 2 and 3 modules and plugins without any extra dependencies.
::
