docs/7.migration/4.meta.md, before:

# Meta Tags

Nuxt 3 provides several different ways to manage your meta tags.

1. Through your `nuxt.config`.
2. Through the [`useHead`](/docs/api/composables/use-head) [composable](/docs/getting-started/seo-meta)
3. Through [global meta components](/docs/getting-started/seo-meta)

You can customize `title`, `titleTemplate`, `base`, `script`, `noscript`, `style`, `meta`, `link`, `htmlAttrs` and `bodyAttrs`.

::alert{icon=📦}
Nuxt currently uses [`vueuse/head`](https://github.com/vueuse/head) to manage your meta tags, but implementation details may change.
::

[Read more about meta tags](/docs/getting-started/seo-meta).

## Migration

1. In your `nuxt.config`, rename `head` to `meta`. Consider moving this shared meta configuration into your `app.vue` instead. (Note that objects no longer have a `hid` key for deduplication.)
1. If you need to access the component state with `head`, you should migrate to using [`useHead`](/docs/api/composables/use-head) . You might also consider using the built-in meta-components.
1. If you need to use the Options API, there is a `head()` method you can use when you use `defineNuxtComponent`.

### Example: useHead

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
<script>
export default {
  data: () => ({
    title: 'My App',
    description: 'My App Description'
  })
  head () {
    return {
      title: this.title,
      meta: [{
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: this.description
      }]
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<script setup lang="ts">
const title = ref('My App')
const description = ref('My App Description')

// This will be reactive even you change title/description above
useHead({
  title,
  meta: [{
    name: 'description',
    content: description
  }]
})
</script>
```

::

### Example: Built-in Meta-components

Nuxt 3 also provides meta components that you can use to accomplish the same task. While these components look similar to HTML tags, they are provided by Nuxt and have similar functionality.

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
<script>
export default {
  head () {
    return {
      title: 'My App',
      meta: [{
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: 'My App Description'
      }]
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<template>
  <div>
    <Head>
      <Title>My App</Title>
      <Meta name="description" content="My app description"/>
    </Head>
    <!-- -->
  </div>
</template>
```

::

::alert{icon=👉}

1. Make sure you use capital letters for these component names to distinguish them from native HTML elements (`<Title>` rather than `<title>`).
1. You can place these components anywhere in your template for your page.
::

### Example: Options API

```vue [Nuxt 3 (Options API)]
<script>
// if using options API `head` method you must use `defineNuxtComponent`
export default defineNuxtComponent({
  head (nuxtApp) {
    // `head` receives the nuxt app but cannot access the component instance
    return {
      meta: [{
        name: 'description',
        content: 'This is my page description.'
      }]
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

Commit message:

docs: update to new website (#23743)
Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/7.migration/4.meta.md, after:

---
title: Meta Tags
description: Manage your meta tags, from Nuxt 2 to Nuxt 3.
---

Nuxt 3 provides several different ways to manage your meta tags:
1. Through your `nuxt.config`.
2. Through the [`useHead`](/docs/api/composables/use-head) [composable](/docs/getting-started/seo-meta)
3. Through [global meta components](/docs/getting-started/seo-meta)

You can customize `title`, `titleTemplate`, `base`, `script`, `noscript`, `style`, `meta`, `link`, `htmlAttrs` and `bodyAttrs`.

::callout
Nuxt currently uses [`vueuse/head`](https://github.com/vueuse/head) to manage your meta tags, but implementation details may change.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/getting-started/seo-meta"}

## Migration

1. In your `nuxt.config`, rename `head` to `meta`. Consider moving this shared meta configuration into your `app.vue` instead. (Note that objects no longer have a `hid` key for deduplication.)
2. If you need to access the component state with `head`, you should migrate to using [`useHead`](/docs/api/composables/use-head) . You might also consider using the built-in meta-components.
3. If you need to use the Options API, there is a `head()` method you can use when you use `defineNuxtComponent`.

### useHead

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
<script>
export default {
  data: () => ({
    title: 'My App',
    description: 'My App Description'
  })
  head () {
    return {
      title: this.title,
      meta: [{
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: this.description
      }]
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<script setup lang="ts">
const title = ref('My App')
const description = ref('My App Description')

// This will be reactive even you change title/description above
useHead({
  title,
  meta: [{
    name: 'description',
    content: description
  }]
})
</script>
```

::

### Meta-components

Nuxt 3 also provides meta components that you can use to accomplish the same task. While these components look similar to HTML tags, they are provided by Nuxt and have similar functionality.

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
<script>
export default {
  head () {
    return {
      title: 'My App',
      meta: [{
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: 'My App Description'
      }]
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<template>
  <div>
    <Head>
      <Title>My App</Title>
      <Meta name="description" content="My app description"/>
    </Head>
    <!-- -->
  </div>
</template>
```

::

::callout
1. Make sure you use capital letters for these component names to distinguish them from native HTML elements (`<Title>` rather than `<title>`).
2. You can place these components anywhere in your template for your page.
::

### Options API

```vue [Nuxt 3 (Options API)]
<script>
// if using options API `head` method you must use `defineNuxtComponent`
export default defineNuxtComponent({
  head (nuxtApp) {
    // `head` receives the nuxt app but cannot access the component instance
    return {
      meta: [{
        name: 'description',
        content: 'This is my page description.'
      }]
    }
  }
})
</script>
```
