docs/content/2.guide/3.directory-structure/4.components.md, before:

---
icon: IconDirectory
title: 'components'
head.title: Components directory
---

# Components directory

The `components/` directory is where you put all your Vue components which can then be imported inside your pages or other components ([learn more](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/component-basics.html#components-basics)).

Nuxt automatically imports any components in your `components/` directory (along with components that are registered by any modules you may be using).

```bash
| components/
--| TheHeader.vue
--| TheFooter.vue
```

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <TheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Component Names

If you have a component in nested directories such as:

```bash
| components/
--| base/
----| foo/
------| Button.vue
```

... then the component's name will be based on its own path directory and filename, with duplicate segments being removed. Therefore, the component's name will be:

```html
<BaseFooButton />
```

::alert
For clarity, we recommend that the component's filename matches its name. (So, in the example above, you could rename `Button.vue` to be `BaseFooButton.vue`.)
::

## Dynamic components

If you want to use the Vue `<component :is="someComputedComponent">` syntax, then you will need to use the `resolveComponent` helper provided by Vue.

For example:

```vue
<template>
  <component :is="clickable ? MyButton : 'div'" />
</template>

<script setup>
const MyButton = resolveComponent('MyButton')
</script>
```

::alert{type=warning}
If you are using `resolveComponent` to handle dynamic components, make sure not to insert anything but the name of the component, which must be a string and not a variable.
::

Alternatively, though not recommended, you can register all your components globally, which will create async chunks for all your components and make them available throughout your application.

```diff
  import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt'

  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    components: {
+     global: true,
+     dirs: ['~/components']
    },
  })
```

::alert{type=info}
The `global` option can also be set per component directory.
::

## Dynamic Imports

To dynamically import a component (also known as lazy-loading a component) all you need to do is add the `Lazy` prefix to the component's name.

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <LazyTheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

This is particularly useful if the component is not always needed. By using the `Lazy` prefix you can delay loading the component code until the right moment, which can be helpful for optimizing your JavaScript bundle size.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      show: false
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

## Direct imports

You can also explicitly import components from `#components` if you want or need to bypass Nuxt's auto-importing functionality.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup>
  import { NuxtLink, LazyMountainsList } from '#components'
  const show = ref(false)
</script>
```

## `<ClientOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<ClientOnly>` component for purposely rendering a component only on client side. To import a component only on the client, register the component in a client-side only plugin.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client-side -->
      <Comments />
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

Use a slot as fallback until `<ClientOnly>` is mounted on client side.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
      <Comments />
      <template #fallback>
        <!-- this will be rendered on server side -->
        <p>Loading comments...</p>
      </template>
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

<!-- TODO: Add back after passing treeshakeClientOnly experiment -->
<!-- ::alert{type=warning}
Make sure not to _nest_ `<ClientOnly>` components or other client-only components. Nuxt performs an optimization to remove the contents of these components from the server-side render, which can break in this case.
:: -->

## Library Authors

Making Vue component libraries with automatic tree-shaking and component registration is super easy ✨

You can use the `components:dirs` hook to extend the directory list without requiring user configuration in your Nuxt module.

Imagine a directory structure like this:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| awesome-ui/
------| components/
---------| Alert.vue
---------| Button.vue
------| nuxt.js
| pages/
---| index.vue
| nuxt.config.js
```

Then in `awesome-ui/nuxt.js` you can use the `components:dirs` hook:

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  hooks: {
    'components:dirs'(dirs) {
      // Add ./components dir to the list
      dirs.push({
        path: fileURLToPath(new URL('./components', import.meta.url)),
        prefix: 'awesome'
      })
    }
  }
})
```

That's it! Now in your project, you can import your UI library as a Nuxt module in your `nuxt.config` file:

```js
export default {
  modules: ['awesome-ui/nuxt']
}
```

... and directly use the module components (prefixed with `awesome-`) in our `pages/index.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    My <AwesomeButton>UI button</AwesomeButton>!
    <awesome-alert>Here's an alert!</awesome-alert>
  </div>
</template>
```

It will automatically import the components only if used and also support HMR when updating your components in `node_modules/awesome-ui/components/`.

:LinkExample{link="/examples/auto-imports/components"}

Commit message:

feat(nuxt): add support for `components/global` (#6070)
Co-authored-by: Pooya Parsa <pooya@pi0.io>

docs/content/2.guide/3.directory-structure/4.components.md, after:

---
icon: IconDirectory
title: 'components'
head.title: Components directory
---

# Components directory

The `components/` directory is where you put all your Vue components which can then be imported inside your pages or other components ([learn more](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/component-basics.html#components-basics)).

Nuxt automatically imports any components in your `components/` directory (along with components that are registered by any modules you may be using).

```bash
| components/
--| TheHeader.vue
--| TheFooter.vue
```

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <TheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Component Names

If you have a component in nested directories such as:

```bash
| components/
--| base/
----| foo/
------| Button.vue
```

... then the component's name will be based on its own path directory and filename, with duplicate segments being removed. Therefore, the component's name will be:

```html
<BaseFooButton />
```

::alert
For clarity, we recommend that the component's filename matches its name. (So, in the example above, you could rename `Button.vue` to be `BaseFooButton.vue`.)
::

## Dynamic components

If you want to use the Vue `<component :is="someComputedComponent">` syntax, then you will need to use the `resolveComponent` helper provided by Vue.

For example:

```vue
<template>
  <component :is="clickable ? MyButton : 'div'" />
</template>

<script setup>
const MyButton = resolveComponent('MyButton')
</script>
```

::alert{type=warning}
If you are using `resolveComponent` to handle dynamic components, make sure not to insert anything but the name of the component, which must be a string and not a variable.
::

Alternatively, though not recommended, you can register all your components globally, which will create async chunks for all your components and make them available throughout your application.

```diff
  import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt'

  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    components: {
+     global: true,
+     dirs: ['~/components']
    },
  })
```

::StabilityEdge{title="Automatic global components"}
In the current version, components in `~/components/global` are not yet auto-registered.
::

You can also selectively register some components globally by placing them in a `~/components/global` directory.

::alert{type=info}
The `global` option can also be set per component directory.
::

## Dynamic Imports

To dynamically import a component (also known as lazy-loading a component) all you need to do is add the `Lazy` prefix to the component's name.

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <LazyTheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

This is particularly useful if the component is not always needed. By using the `Lazy` prefix you can delay loading the component code until the right moment, which can be helpful for optimizing your JavaScript bundle size.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      show: false
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

## Direct imports

You can also explicitly import components from `#components` if you want or need to bypass Nuxt's auto-importing functionality.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup>
  import { NuxtLink, LazyMountainsList } from '#components'
  const show = ref(false)
</script>
```

## `<ClientOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<ClientOnly>` component for purposely rendering a component only on client side. To import a component only on the client, register the component in a client-side only plugin.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client-side -->
      <Comments />
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

Use a slot as fallback until `<ClientOnly>` is mounted on client side.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
      <Comments />
      <template #fallback>
        <!-- this will be rendered on server side -->
        <p>Loading comments...</p>
      </template>
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

<!-- TODO: Add back after passing treeshakeClientOnly experiment -->
<!-- ::alert{type=warning}
Make sure not to _nest_ `<ClientOnly>` components or other client-only components. Nuxt performs an optimization to remove the contents of these components from the server-side render, which can break in this case.
:: -->

## Library Authors

Making Vue component libraries with automatic tree-shaking and component registration is super easy ✨

You can use the `components:dirs` hook to extend the directory list without requiring user configuration in your Nuxt module.

Imagine a directory structure like this:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| awesome-ui/
------| components/
---------| Alert.vue
---------| Button.vue
------| nuxt.js
| pages/
---| index.vue
| nuxt.config.js
```

Then in `awesome-ui/nuxt.js` you can use the `components:dirs` hook:

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  hooks: {
    'components:dirs'(dirs) {
      // Add ./components dir to the list
      dirs.push({
        path: fileURLToPath(new URL('./components', import.meta.url)),
        prefix: 'awesome'
      })
    }
  }
})
```

That's it! Now in your project, you can import your UI library as a Nuxt module in your `nuxt.config` file:

```js
export default {
  modules: ['awesome-ui/nuxt']
}
```

... and directly use the module components (prefixed with `awesome-`) in our `pages/index.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    My <AwesomeButton>UI button</AwesomeButton>!
    <awesome-alert>Here's an alert!</awesome-alert>
  </div>
</template>
```

It will automatically import the components only if used and also support HMR when updating your components in `node_modules/awesome-ui/components/`.

:LinkExample{link="/examples/auto-imports/components"}
