docs/3.api/5.commands/dev.md, before:

---
title: "nuxi dev"
description: The dev command starts a development server with hot module replacement at http://localhost:3000
---

# `nuxi dev`

```{bash}
npx nuxi dev [rootDir] [--dotenv] [--log-level] [--clipboard] [--open, -o] [--no-clear] [--port, -p] [--host, -h] [--https] [--ssl-cert] [--ssl-key]
```

The `dev` command starts a development server with hot module replacement at [http://localhost:3000](https://localhost:3000)

Option        | Default          | Description
-------------------------|-----------------|------------------
`rootDir` | `.` | The root directory of the application to serve.
`--dotenv` | `.` | Point to another `.env` file to load, **relative** to the root directory.
`--clipboard` | `false` | Copy URL to clipboard.
`--open, -o` | `false` | Open URL in browser.
`--no-clear` | `false` | Does not clear the console after startup.
`--port, -p` | `3000` | Port to listen.
`--host, -h` | `localhost` | Hostname of the server.
`--https` | `false` | Listen with `https` protocol with a self-signed certificate by default.
`--ssl-cert` |`null` | Specify a certificate for https.
`--ssl-key` |`null` | Specify the key for the https certificate.

The port and host can also be set via NUXT_PORT, PORT, NUXT_HOST or HOST environment variables.

This command sets `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `development`.

::alert{type="info"}
If you are using a self-signed certificate in development, you will need to set `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0` in your environment.
::

Commit message:

docs: mention `listhen` options on nuxi dev page (#23415)

docs/3.api/5.commands/dev.md, after:

---
title: "nuxi dev"
description: The dev command starts a development server with hot module replacement at http://localhost:3000
---

# `nuxi dev`

```{bash}
npx nuxi dev [rootDir] [--dotenv] [--log-level] [--clipboard] [--open, -o] [--no-clear] [--port, -p] [--host, -h] [--https] [--ssl-cert] [--ssl-key]
```

The `dev` command starts a development server with hot module replacement at [http://localhost:3000](https://localhost:3000)

Option        | Default          | Description
-------------------------|-----------------|------------------
`rootDir` | `.` | The root directory of the application to serve.
`--dotenv` | `.` | Point to another `.env` file to load, **relative** to the root directory.
`--clipboard` | `false` | Copy URL to clipboard.
`--open, -o` | `false` | Open URL in browser.
`--no-clear` | `false` | Does not clear the console after startup.
`--port, -p` | `3000` | Port to listen.
`--host, -h` | `localhost` | Hostname of the server.
`--https` | `false` | Listen with `https` protocol with a self-signed certificate by default.
`--ssl-cert` |`null` | Specify a certificate for https.
`--ssl-key` |`null` | Specify the key for the https certificate.

The port and host can also be set via NUXT_PORT, PORT, NUXT_HOST or HOST environment variables.

Additionally to the above options, `nuxi` can pass options through to `listhen`, e.g. `--no-qr` to turn off the dev server QR code. You can find the list of `listhen` options in the [unjs/listhen](https://github.com/unjs/listhen) docs.

This command sets `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `development`.

::alert{type="info"}
If you are using a self-signed certificate in development, you will need to set `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0` in your environment.
::
