docs/content/1.docs/1.getting-started/5.transitions.md, before:

---
navigation.icon: uil:moon-eclipse
description: Nuxt leverages Vue's Transition component to apply transitions between pages and layouts.
---

# Transitions

Nuxt leverages Vue's [`<Transition>`](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition.html#the-transition-component) component to apply transitions between pages and layouts.

## Page transitions

You can enable page transitions to apply an automatic transition for all your [pages](/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: { name: 'page', mode: 'out-in' }
  },
})
```

To start adding transition between your pages, add the following CSS to your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app):

::code-group

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtPage />
</template>

<style>
.page-enter-active,
.page-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.page-enter-from,
.page-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  filter: blur(1rem);
}
</style>
```

```html [pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Home page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/about">About page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

```html [pages/about.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>About page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

This produces the following result when navigating between pages:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665061349/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions_umwvmh.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665061349/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions_umwvmh.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

To set a different transition for a page, set the `pageTransition` key in [`definePageMeta`](/docs/api/utils/define-page-meta) of the page:

::code-group

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'rotate'
  }
})
</script>
```

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtPage />
</template>

<style>
/* ... */
.rotate-enter-active,
.rotate-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.rotate-enter-from,
.rotate-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: rotate3d(1, 1, 1, 15deg);
}
</style>
```

::

Moving to the about page will add the 3d rotation effect:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665063233/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions-cutom.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665063233/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions-cutom.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Layout transitions

You can enable layout transitions to apply an automatic transition for all your [layouts](/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    layoutTransition: { name: 'layout', mode: 'out-in' }
  },
})
```

To start adding transition between your pages and layouts, add the following CSS to your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app):

::code-group

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLayout>
    <NuxtPage />
  </NuxtLayout>
</template>

<style>
.layout-enter-active,
.layout-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.layout-enter-from,
.layout-leave-to {
  filter: grayscale(1);
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <pre>default layout</pre>
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>

<style scoped>
div {
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/orange.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <pre>orange layout</pre>
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>

<style scoped>
div {
  background-color: #eebb90;
  padding: 20px;
  height: 100vh;
}
</style>
```

```html [pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Home page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/about">About page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

```html [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  layout: 'orange'
})
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>About page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

This produces the following result when navigating between pages:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665065289/nuxt3/nuxt3-layouts-transitions_c9hwlx.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665065289/nuxt3/nuxt3-layouts-transitions_c9hwlx.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Similar to `pageTransition`, you can apply a custom `layoutTransition` to the page component using `definePageMeta`:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  layout: 'orange',
  layoutTransition: {
    name: 'slide-in'
  }
})
</script>
```

## Global settings

You can customize these default transition names globally using `nuxt.config`.

Both `pageTransition` and `layoutTransition` keys accept [`TransitionProps`](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-components.html#transition) as JSON serializable values where you can pass the `name`, `mode` and other valid transition-props of the custom CSS transition.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: {
      name: 'fade',
      mode: 'out-in' // default
    },
    layoutTransition: {
      name: 'slide',
      mode: 'out-in' // default
    }
  }
})
```

::alert{type="info"}
If you change the `name` property, you also have to rename the CSS classes accordingly.
::

To override the global transition property, use the `definePageMeta` to define page or layout transitions for a single Nuxt page and override any page or layout transitions that are defined globally in `nuxt.config` file.

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'bounce',
    mode: 'out-in' // default
  }
})
</script>
```

## Disable Transitions

`pageTransition` and `layoutTransition` can be disabled for a specific route:

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: false
  layoutTransition: false
})
</script>
```

Or globally in the `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: false,
    layoutTransition: false
  }
})
```

## JavaScript Hooks

For advanced use-cases, you can use JavaScript hooks to create highly dynamic and custom transitions for your Nuxt pages.

This way presents perfect use-cases for JavaScript animation libraries such as [GSAP](https://greensock.com/gsap/) or [Tween.js](https://createjs.com/tweenjs).

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'custom-flip',
    mode: 'out-in',
    onBeforeEnter: (el) => {
      console.log('Before enter...')
    },
    onEnter: (el, done) => {},
    onAfterEnter: (el) => {}
  }
})
</script>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Learn more about additional [JavaScript hooks](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition.html#javascript-hooks) available in the `Transition` component.
::

## Dynamic Transitions

To apply dynamic transitions using conditional logic, you can leverage inline [middleware](/docs/guide/directory-structure/middleware) to assign a different transition name to `to.meta.pageTransition`.

::code-group

```html [pages/[id].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'slide-right',
    mode: 'out-in'
  },
  middleware (to, from) {
    to.meta.pageTransition.name = +to.params.id > +from.params.id ? 'slide-left' : 'slide-right'
  }
})
</script>

<template>
  <h1>#{{ $route.params.id }}</h1>
</template>

<style>
.slide-left-enter-active,
.slide-left-leave-active,
.slide-right-enter-active,
.slide-right-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.2s;
}
.slide-left-enter-from {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(50px, 0);
}
.slide-left-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(-50px, 0);
}
.slide-right-enter-from {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(-50px, 0);
}
.slide-right-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(50px, 0);
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/default.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()
const id = computed(() => Number(route.params.id || 1))
const prev = computed(() => '/' + (id.value - 1))
const next = computed(() => '/' + (id.value + 1))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <slot />
    <div v-if="$route.params.id">
      <NuxtLink :to="prev">⬅️</NuxtLink> |
      <NuxtLink :to="next">➡️</NuxtLink>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

The page now applies the `slide-left` transition when going to the next id and `slide-right` for the previous:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665069410/nuxt3/nuxt-dynamic-page-transitions.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665069410/nuxt3/nuxt-dynamic-page-transitions.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Transition with NuxtPage

When `<NuxtPage />` is used in `app.vue`, transition-props can be passed directly as a component props to activate global transition.

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <NuxtLayout>
      <NuxtPage :transition="{
        name: 'bounce',
        mode: 'out-in'
      }" />
    </NuxtLayout>
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Remember, this page transition cannot be overridden with `definePageMeta` on individual pages.
::

Commit message:

docs: add warning about `definePageMeta` issues with transitions and `NuxtLoadingIndicator` (#9055)
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/content/1.docs/1.getting-started/5.transitions.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: uil:moon-eclipse
description: Nuxt leverages Vue's Transition component to apply transitions between pages and layouts.
---

# Transitions

Nuxt leverages Vue's [`<Transition>`](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition.html#the-transition-component) component to apply transitions between pages and layouts.

## Page transitions

You can enable page transitions to apply an automatic transition for all your [pages](/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: { name: 'page', mode: 'out-in' }
  },
})
```

::alert{type=warning}
If you are changing layouts as well as page, the page transition you set here will not run. Instead, you should set a layout transition.
::

To start adding transition between your pages, add the following CSS to your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app):

::code-group

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtPage />
</template>

<style>
.page-enter-active,
.page-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.page-enter-from,
.page-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  filter: blur(1rem);
}
</style>
```

```html [pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Home page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/about">About page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

```html [pages/about.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>About page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

This produces the following result when navigating between pages:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665061349/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions_umwvmh.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665061349/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions_umwvmh.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

To set a different transition for a page, set the `pageTransition` key in [`definePageMeta`](/docs/api/utils/define-page-meta) of the page:

::code-group

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'rotate'
  }
})
</script>
```

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtPage />
</template>

<style>
/* ... */
.rotate-enter-active,
.rotate-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.rotate-enter-from,
.rotate-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: rotate3d(1, 1, 1, 15deg);
}
</style>
```

::

Moving to the about page will add the 3d rotation effect:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665063233/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions-cutom.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665063233/nuxt3/nuxt3-page-transitions-cutom.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Layout transitions

You can enable layout transitions to apply an automatic transition for all your [layouts](/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    layoutTransition: { name: 'layout', mode: 'out-in' }
  },
})
```

To start adding transition between your pages and layouts, add the following CSS to your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app):

::code-group

```html [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLayout>
    <NuxtPage />
  </NuxtLayout>
</template>

<style>
.layout-enter-active,
.layout-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.4s;
}
.layout-enter-from,
.layout-leave-to {
  filter: grayscale(1);
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <pre>default layout</pre>
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>

<style scoped>
div {
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/orange.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <pre>orange layout</pre>
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>

<style scoped>
div {
  background-color: #eebb90;
  padding: 20px;
  height: 100vh;
}
</style>
```

```html [pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Home page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/about">About page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

```html [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  layout: 'orange'
})
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>About page</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home page</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

This produces the following result when navigating between pages:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665065289/nuxt3/nuxt3-layouts-transitions_c9hwlx.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665065289/nuxt3/nuxt3-layouts-transitions_c9hwlx.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Similar to `pageTransition`, you can apply a custom `layoutTransition` to the page component using `definePageMeta`:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  layout: 'orange',
  layoutTransition: {
    name: 'slide-in'
  }
})
</script>
```

## Global settings

You can customize these default transition names globally using `nuxt.config`.

Both `pageTransition` and `layoutTransition` keys accept [`TransitionProps`](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-components.html#transition) as JSON serializable values where you can pass the `name`, `mode` and other valid transition-props of the custom CSS transition.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: {
      name: 'fade',
      mode: 'out-in' // default
    },
    layoutTransition: {
      name: 'slide',
      mode: 'out-in' // default
    }
  }
})
```

::alert{type="info"}
If you change the `name` property, you also have to rename the CSS classes accordingly.
::

To override the global transition property, use the `definePageMeta` to define page or layout transitions for a single Nuxt page and override any page or layout transitions that are defined globally in `nuxt.config` file.

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'bounce',
    mode: 'out-in' // default
  }
})
</script>
```

## Disable Transitions

`pageTransition` and `layoutTransition` can be disabled for a specific route:

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: false
  layoutTransition: false
})
</script>
```

Or globally in the `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
defineNuxtConfig({
  app: {
    pageTransition: false,
    layoutTransition: false
  }
})
```

## JavaScript Hooks

For advanced use-cases, you can use JavaScript hooks to create highly dynamic and custom transitions for your Nuxt pages.

This way presents perfect use-cases for JavaScript animation libraries such as [GSAP](https://greensock.com/gsap/) or [Tween.js](https://createjs.com/tweenjs).

```vue [pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'custom-flip',
    mode: 'out-in',
    onBeforeEnter: (el) => {
      console.log('Before enter...')
    },
    onEnter: (el, done) => {},
    onAfterEnter: (el) => {}
  }
})
</script>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Learn more about additional [JavaScript hooks](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition.html#javascript-hooks) available in the `Transition` component.
::

## Dynamic Transitions

To apply dynamic transitions using conditional logic, you can leverage inline [middleware](/docs/guide/directory-structure/middleware) to assign a different transition name to `to.meta.pageTransition`.

::code-group

```html [pages/[id].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  pageTransition: {
    name: 'slide-right',
    mode: 'out-in'
  },
  middleware (to, from) {
    to.meta.pageTransition.name = +to.params.id > +from.params.id ? 'slide-left' : 'slide-right'
  }
})
</script>

<template>
  <h1>#{{ $route.params.id }}</h1>
</template>

<style>
.slide-left-enter-active,
.slide-left-leave-active,
.slide-right-enter-active,
.slide-right-leave-active {
  transition: all 0.2s;
}
.slide-left-enter-from {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(50px, 0);
}
.slide-left-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(-50px, 0);
}
.slide-right-enter-from {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(-50px, 0);
}
.slide-right-leave-to {
  opacity: 0;
  transform: translate(50px, 0);
}
</style>
```

```html [layouts/default.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()
const id = computed(() => Number(route.params.id || 1))
const prev = computed(() => '/' + (id.value - 1))
const next = computed(() => '/' + (id.value + 1))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <slot />
    <div v-if="$route.params.id">
      <NuxtLink :to="prev">⬅️</NuxtLink> |
      <NuxtLink :to="next">➡️</NuxtLink>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

::

The page now applies the `slide-left` transition when going to the next id and `slide-right` for the previous:

<video controls class="rounded" poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665069410/nuxt3/nuxt-dynamic-page-transitions.jpg">
  <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1665069410/nuxt3/nuxt-dynamic-page-transitions.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Transition with NuxtPage

When `<NuxtPage />` is used in `app.vue`, transition-props can be passed directly as a component props to activate global transition.

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <NuxtLayout>
      <NuxtPage :transition="{
        name: 'bounce',
        mode: 'out-in'
      }" />
    </NuxtLayout>
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Remember, this page transition cannot be overridden with `definePageMeta` on individual pages.
::
