docs/3.api/3.utils/preload-route-components.md, before:

---
title: "preloadRouteComponents"
---

# `preloadRouteComponents`

`preloadRouteComponents` allows you to manually preload individual pages in your Nuxt app.

> Preloading routes loads the components of a given route that the user might navigate to in future. This ensures that the components are available earlier and less likely to block the navigation, improving performance.

::alert
Nuxt already automatically preloads the necessary routes if you're using the `NuxtLink` component.
::
::ReadMore{link="/docs/api/components/nuxt-link"}
::

## Example

Preload a route when using `navigateTo`.

```ts
// we don't await this async function, to avoid blocking rendering
// this component's setup function
preloadRouteComponents('/dashboard')

const submit = async () => {
  const results = await $fetch('/api/authentication')

  if (results.token) {
    await navigateTo('/dashboard')
  }
}
```

::ReadMore{link="/docs/api/utils/navigate-to"}
::

::alert{icon=👉}
Currently, on server, `preloadRouteComponents` will have no effect.
::

Commit message:

docs: update to new website (#23743)
Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>

docs/3.api/3.utils/preload-route-components.md, after:

---
title: 'preloadRouteComponents'
description: preloadRouteComponents allows you to manually preload individual pages in your Nuxt app.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/preload.ts
    size: xs
---

Preloading routes loads the components of a given route that the user might navigate to in future. This ensures that the components are available earlier and less likely to block the navigation, improving performance.

::callout{color="green" icon="i-ph-rocket-launch-duotone"}
Nuxt already automatically preloads the necessary routes if you're using the `NuxtLink` component.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/api/components/nuxt-link"}

## Example

Preload a route when using `navigateTo`.

```ts
// we don't await this async function, to avoid blocking rendering
// this component's setup function
preloadRouteComponents('/dashboard')

const submit = async () => {
  const results = await $fetch('/api/authentication')

  if (results.token) {
    await navigateTo('/dashboard')
  }
}
```

:read-more{to="/docs/api/utils/navigate-to"}

::callout
On server, `preloadRouteComponents` will have no effect.
::
