docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/1.components.md, before:

---
navigation.icon: IconDirectory
title: "components"
description: "The components/ directory is where you put all your Vue components."
head.title: "components/"
---

# Components Directory

The `components/` directory is where you put all your Vue components which can then be imported inside your pages or other components ([learn more](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/component-basics.html#components-basics)).

Nuxt automatically imports any components in your `components/` directory (along with components that are registered by any modules you may be using).

```bash
| components/
--| TheHeader.vue
--| TheFooter.vue
```

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <TheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Component extensions

By default, any file with an extension specified in the [extensions key of `nuxt.config.ts`](/api/configuration/nuxt-config#extensions) is treated as a component.
If you need to restrict the file extensions that should be registered as components, you can use the extended form of the components directory declaration and its `extensions` key:

```diff
export default defineNuxtModule({
  components: [
    {
      path: '~/components',
+     extensions: ['.vue'],
    }
  ]
})
```

## Component Names

If you have a component in nested directories such as:

```bash
| components/
--| base/
----| foo/
------| Button.vue
```

... then the component's name will be based on its own path directory and filename, with duplicate segments being removed. Therefore, the component's name will be:

```html
<BaseFooButton />
```

::alert
For clarity, we recommend that the component's filename matches its name. (So, in the example above, you could rename `Button.vue` to be `BaseFooButton.vue`.)
::

If you want to auto-import components based only on its name, not path, then you need to set `pathPrefix` option to `false` using extended form of the configuration object:

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  components: [
    {
      path: '~/components/',
+     pathPrefix: false,
    },
  ],
});
```

This registers the components using the same strategy as used in Nuxt 2. For example, `~/components/Some/MyComponent.vue` will be usable as `<MyComponent>` and not `<SomeMyComponent>`.

## Dynamic Components

If you want to use the Vue `<component :is="someComputedComponent">` syntax, then you will need to use the `resolveComponent` helper provided by Vue.

For example:

```vue
<template>
  <component :is="clickable ? MyButton : 'div'" />
</template>

<script setup>
const MyButton = resolveComponent('MyButton')
</script>
```

::alert{type=warning}
If you are using `resolveComponent` to handle dynamic components, make sure not to insert anything but the name of the component, which must be a string and not a variable.
::

Alternatively, though not recommended, you can register all your components globally, which will create async chunks for all your components and make them available throughout your application.

```diff

  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    components: {
+     global: true,
+     dirs: ['~/components']
    },
  })
```

You can also selectively register some components globally by placing them in a `~/components/global` directory.

::alert{type=info}
The `global` option can also be set per component directory.
::

## Dynamic Imports

To dynamically import a component (also known as lazy-loading a component) all you need to do is add the `Lazy` prefix to the component's name.

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <LazyTheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

This is particularly useful if the component is not always needed. By using the `Lazy` prefix you can delay loading the component code until the right moment, which can be helpful for optimizing your JavaScript bundle size.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      show: false
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

## Direct Imports

You can also explicitly import components from `#components` if you want or need to bypass Nuxt's auto-importing functionality.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup>
  import { NuxtLink, LazyMountainsList } from '#components'
  const show = ref(false)
</script>
```

## `<ClientOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<ClientOnly>` component for purposely rendering a component only on client side. To import a component only on the client, register the component in a client-side only plugin.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client-side -->
      <Comments />
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

Use a slot as fallback until `<ClientOnly>` is mounted on client side.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <!-- This renders the "span" element on the server side -->
    <ClientOnly fallbackTag="span">
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
      <Comments />
      <template #fallback>
        <!-- this will be rendered on server side -->
        <p>Loading comments...</p>
      </template>
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

<!-- TODO: Add back after passing treeshakeClientOnly experiment -->
<!-- ::alert{type=warning}
Make sure not to _nest_ `<ClientOnly>` components or other client-only components. Nuxt performs an optimization to remove the contents of these components from the server-side render, which can break in this case.
:: -->

## .client Components

If a component is meant to be rendered only client-side, you can add the `.client` suffix to your component.

```bash
| components/
--| Comments.client.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
    <Comments />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
This feature only works with Nuxt auto-imports and `#components` imports. Explicitly importing these components from their real paths does not convert them into client-only components.
::

::alert{type=warning}
`.client` components are rendered only after being mounted. To access the rendered template using `onMounted()`, add `await nextTick()` in the callback of the `onMounted()` hook.
::

## .server Components

`.server` components can either be used on their own or paired with a `.client` component.

### Standalone server components

Standalone server components will always be rendered on the server. When their props update, this will result in a network request that will update the rendered HTML in-place.

Server components are currently experimental and in order to use them, you need to enable the 'component islands' feature in your nuxt.config:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    componentIslands: true
  }
})
```

Now you can register server-only components with the `.server` suffix and use them anywhere in your application automatically.

```bash
| components/
--| HighlightedMarkdown.server.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!--
      this will automatically be rendered on the server, meaning your markdown parsing + highlighting
      libraries are not included in your client bundle.
     -->
    <HighlightedMarkdown markdown="# Headline" />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
Slots are not supported by server components in their current state of development.
::

::alert{type=info}
Please note that there is a known issue with using async code in a server component. It will lead to a hydration mismatch error on initial render. See [#18500](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/issues/18500#issuecomment-1403528142). Until there is a workaround, server-components must be synchronous.
::

### Paired with a `.client` component

In this case, the `.server` + `.client` components are two 'halves' of a component and can be used in advanced use cases for separate implementations of a component on server and client side.

```bash
| components/
--| Comments.client.vue
--| Comments.server.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- this component will render Comments.server server-side then Comments.client once mounted in client-side -->
    <Comments />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
It is essential that the client half of the component can 'hydrate' the server-rendered HTML. That is, it should render the same HTML on initial load, or you will experience a hydration mismatch.
::

## `<DevOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<DevOnly>` component to render a component only during development.

The content will not be included in production builds and tree-shaken.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <DevOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered during development -->
      <LazyDebugBar />
    </DevOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Library Authors

Making Vue component libraries with automatic tree-shaking and component registration is super easy ✨

You can use the `components:dirs` hook to extend the directory list without requiring user configuration in your Nuxt module.

Imagine a directory structure like this:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| awesome-ui/
------| components/
---------| Alert.vue
---------| Button.vue
------| nuxt.js
| pages/
---| index.vue
| nuxt.config.js
```

Then in `awesome-ui/nuxt.js` you can use the `components:dirs` hook:

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  hooks: {
    'components:dirs'(dirs) {
      // Add ./components dir to the list
      dirs.push({
        path: fileURLToPath(new URL('./components', import.meta.url)),
        prefix: 'awesome'
      })
    }
  }
})
```

That's it! Now in your project, you can import your UI library as a Nuxt module in your `nuxt.config` file:

```js
export default {
  modules: ['awesome-ui/nuxt']
}
```

... and directly use the module components (prefixed with `awesome-`) in our `pages/index.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    My <AwesomeButton>UI button</AwesomeButton>!
    <awesome-alert>Here's an alert!</awesome-alert>
  </div>
</template>
```

It will automatically import the components only if used and also support HMR when updating your components in `node_modules/awesome-ui/components/`.

::LinkExample{link="/docs/examples/auto-imports/components"}
::

Commit message:

docs: add note about nested directory order (#19061)

docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/1.components.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: IconDirectory
title: "components"
description: "The components/ directory is where you put all your Vue components."
head.title: "components/"
---

# Components Directory

The `components/` directory is where you put all your Vue components which can then be imported inside your pages or other components ([learn more](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/component-basics.html#components-basics)).

Nuxt automatically imports any components in your `components/` directory (along with components that are registered by any modules you may be using).

```bash
| components/
--| TheHeader.vue
--| TheFooter.vue
```

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <TheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Custom directories

By default, only the `~/components` directory is scanned. If you want to add other directories, or change how the components are scanned within a subfolder of this directory, you can add additional directories to the configuration:

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  components: [
    { '~/components/special-components', prefix: 'Special' },
    '~/components',
  ]
})
```

::alert
Any nested directories need to be added first as they are scanned in order.
::

## Component extensions

By default, any file with an extension specified in the [extensions key of `nuxt.config.ts`](/api/configuration/nuxt-config#extensions) is treated as a component.
If you need to restrict the file extensions that should be registered as components, you can use the extended form of the components directory declaration and its `extensions` key:

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  components: [
    {
      path: '~/components',
+     extensions: ['.vue'],
    }
  ]
})
```

## Component Names

If you have a component in nested directories such as:

```bash
| components/
--| base/
----| foo/
------| Button.vue
```

... then the component's name will be based on its own path directory and filename, with duplicate segments being removed. Therefore, the component's name will be:

```html
<BaseFooButton />
```

::alert
For clarity, we recommend that the component's filename matches its name. (So, in the example above, you could rename `Button.vue` to be `BaseFooButton.vue`.)
::

If you want to auto-import components based only on its name, not path, then you need to set `pathPrefix` option to `false` using extended form of the configuration object:

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  components: [
    {
      path: '~/components',
+     pathPrefix: false,
    },
  ],
});
```

This registers the components using the same strategy as used in Nuxt 2. For example, `~/components/Some/MyComponent.vue` will be usable as `<MyComponent>` and not `<SomeMyComponent>`.

## Dynamic Components

If you want to use the Vue `<component :is="someComputedComponent">` syntax, then you will need to use the `resolveComponent` helper provided by Vue.

For example:

```vue
<template>
  <component :is="clickable ? MyButton : 'div'" />
</template>

<script setup>
const MyButton = resolveComponent('MyButton')
</script>
```

::alert{type=warning}
If you are using `resolveComponent` to handle dynamic components, make sure not to insert anything but the name of the component, which must be a string and not a variable.
::

Alternatively, though not recommended, you can register all your components globally, which will create async chunks for all your components and make them available throughout your application.

```diff

  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    components: {
+     global: true,
+     dirs: ['~/components']
    },
  })
```

You can also selectively register some components globally by placing them in a `~/components/global` directory.

::alert{type=info}
The `global` option can also be set per component directory.
::

## Dynamic Imports

To dynamically import a component (also known as lazy-loading a component) all you need to do is add the `Lazy` prefix to the component's name.

```html{}[layouts/default.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <TheHeader />
    <slot />
    <LazyTheFooter />
  </div>
</template>
```

This is particularly useful if the component is not always needed. By using the `Lazy` prefix you can delay loading the component code until the right moment, which can be helpful for optimizing your JavaScript bundle size.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      show: false
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

## Direct Imports

You can also explicitly import components from `#components` if you want or need to bypass Nuxt's auto-importing functionality.

```html{}[pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Mountains</h1>
    <LazyMountainsList v-if="show" />
    <button v-if="!show" @click="show = true">Show List</button>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup>
  import { NuxtLink, LazyMountainsList } from '#components'
  const show = ref(false)
</script>
```

## `<ClientOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<ClientOnly>` component for purposely rendering a component only on client side. To import a component only on the client, register the component in a client-side only plugin.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <ClientOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client-side -->
      <Comments />
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

Use a slot as fallback until `<ClientOnly>` is mounted on client side.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <!-- This renders the "span" element on the server side -->
    <ClientOnly fallbackTag="span">
      <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
      <Comments />
      <template #fallback>
        <!-- this will be rendered on server side -->
        <p>Loading comments...</p>
      </template>
    </ClientOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

<!-- TODO: Add back after passing treeshakeClientOnly experiment -->
<!-- ::alert{type=warning}
Make sure not to _nest_ `<ClientOnly>` components or other client-only components. Nuxt performs an optimization to remove the contents of these components from the server-side render, which can break in this case.
:: -->

## .client Components

If a component is meant to be rendered only client-side, you can add the `.client` suffix to your component.

```bash
| components/
--| Comments.client.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- this component will only be rendered on client side -->
    <Comments />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
This feature only works with Nuxt auto-imports and `#components` imports. Explicitly importing these components from their real paths does not convert them into client-only components.
::

::alert{type=warning}
`.client` components are rendered only after being mounted. To access the rendered template using `onMounted()`, add `await nextTick()` in the callback of the `onMounted()` hook.
::

## .server Components

`.server` components can either be used on their own or paired with a `.client` component.

### Standalone server components

Standalone server components will always be rendered on the server. When their props update, this will result in a network request that will update the rendered HTML in-place.

Server components are currently experimental and in order to use them, you need to enable the 'component islands' feature in your nuxt.config:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    componentIslands: true
  }
})
```

Now you can register server-only components with the `.server` suffix and use them anywhere in your application automatically.

```bash
| components/
--| HighlightedMarkdown.server.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!--
      this will automatically be rendered on the server, meaning your markdown parsing + highlighting
      libraries are not included in your client bundle.
     -->
    <HighlightedMarkdown markdown="# Headline" />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
Slots are not supported by server components in their current state of development.
::

::alert{type=info}
Please note that there is a known issue with using async code in a server component. It will lead to a hydration mismatch error on initial render. See [#18500](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/issues/18500#issuecomment-1403528142). Until there is a workaround, server-components must be synchronous.
::

### Paired with a `.client` component

In this case, the `.server` + `.client` components are two 'halves' of a component and can be used in advanced use cases for separate implementations of a component on server and client side.

```bash
| components/
--| Comments.client.vue
--| Comments.server.vue
```

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- this component will render Comments.server server-side then Comments.client once mounted in client-side -->
    <Comments />
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type=warning}
It is essential that the client half of the component can 'hydrate' the server-rendered HTML. That is, it should render the same HTML on initial load, or you will experience a hydration mismatch.
::

## `<DevOnly>` Component

Nuxt provides the `<DevOnly>` component to render a component only during development.

The content will not be included in production builds and tree-shaken.

```html{}[pages/example.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <Sidebar />
    <DevOnly>
      <!-- this component will only be rendered during development -->
      <LazyDebugBar />
    </DevOnly>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Library Authors

Making Vue component libraries with automatic tree-shaking and component registration is super easy ✨

You can use the `components:dirs` hook to extend the directory list without requiring user configuration in your Nuxt module.

Imagine a directory structure like this:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| awesome-ui/
------| components/
---------| Alert.vue
---------| Button.vue
------| nuxt.js
| pages/
---| index.vue
| nuxt.config.js
```

Then in `awesome-ui/nuxt.js` you can use the `components:dirs` hook:

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  hooks: {
    'components:dirs'(dirs) {
      // Add ./components dir to the list
      dirs.push({
        path: fileURLToPath(new URL('./components', import.meta.url)),
        prefix: 'awesome'
      })
    }
  }
})
```

That's it! Now in your project, you can import your UI library as a Nuxt module in your `nuxt.config` file:

```js
export default {
  modules: ['awesome-ui/nuxt']
}
```

... and directly use the module components (prefixed with `awesome-`) in our `pages/index.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    My <AwesomeButton>UI button</AwesomeButton>!
    <awesome-alert>Here's an alert!</awesome-alert>
  </div>
</template>
```

It will automatically import the components only if used and also support HMR when updating your components in `node_modules/awesome-ui/components/`.

::LinkExample{link="/docs/examples/auto-imports/components"}
::
