docs/content/1.getting-started/1.introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

Getting started with Nuxt 3 is straightforward.

::alert{type=warning icon=🚧}
Nuxt 3 is currently in beta, keep in mind that **it is not yet production-ready**.<br>
Thank you in advance for your understanding 💛
::

## What is Nuxt?

If this is the first time you're learning about Nuxt or you want to get more familiar with Nuxt 3, we recommend you begin by reading the [Concepts section](/concepts).

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, please make sure you have installed the recommended setup.

* **Node.js**<sup>*</sup> (latest LTS version) 👉 [[Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)]
* **Visual Studio Code** 👉 [[Download](https://code.visualstudio.com/)]
* **Volar Extension** 👉 [[Download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=johnsoncodehk.volar)]
  * Either enable [**Take Over Mode**](https://github.com/johnsoncodehk/volar/discussions/471) (recommended)
  * ... or add **TypeScript Vue Plugin (Volar)** 👉 [[Download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=johnsoncodehk.vscode-typescript-vue-plugin)]

<sup>*</sup> If you already have Node.js installed, check with `node --version` that you are using `v14` or `v16`.

::alert{type=info}

If you have enabled **Take Over Mode** or installed the **TypeScript Vue Plugin (Volar)** you can disable generating the shim for `*.vue` files:

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    shim: false
  }
})
```

::

## Nuxt 3 or Bridge?

Next, decide whether to start from scratch or upgrade an existing Nuxt 2 project.

### Starting a fresh Nuxt project

::list{type=info}

* Enjoy using Vue 3
* All the new composables are available
* New templating system and conventions are enabled
::

::alert{icon=👉}
Checkout the [Installation section](/getting-started/installation).
::

### Migrating a Nuxt 2 project

If you have an existing Nuxt 2 project, we **strongly recommend** you begin by using Nuxt Bridge. This way you can try most new features while keeping breaking changes to a minimum.

::list{type=info}

* It's risk-free! You can always remove the module from your config
* Makes your project (almost) ready for Nuxt 3
* Enjoy new DX improvements without major rewrites for Vue 3
* Use Nitro engine for platform-agnostic and optimized deployments
* Help us stabilize Nuxt 3 and discover flaws
* Nuxt Bridge is more stable than Nuxt 3 at the moment
::

::alert{icon=👉}
Checkout the [Bridge installation section](/getting-started/bridge).
::

### ‍Comparison

In the table below, there is a quick comparison between 3 versions of Nuxt:

Feature / Version        | Nuxt 2          | Nuxt Bridge      | Nuxt 3
-------------------------|-----------------|------------------|---------
Vue                      | 2               | 2                | 3
Stability                | 😊 Stable      | 😌 Semi-stable   | 😬 Unstable
Performance              | 🏎 Fast        | ✈️ Faster        | 🚀 Fastest
Nitro Engine             | ❌             | ✅               | ✅
ESM support              | 🌙 Partial     | 👍 Better        | ✅
TypeScript               | ☑️ Opt-in      | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Composition API          | ❌             | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Options API              | ✅             | ✅               | ✅
Components Auto Import   | ✅             | ✅               | ✅
`<script setup>` syntax  | ❌             | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Auto Imports             | ❌             | ✅               | ✅
Webpack                  | 4              | 4                | 5
Vite                     | ⚠️ Partial     | 🚧 Partial       | 🚧 Experimental
Nuxi CLI                 | ❌ Old         | ✅ nuxi          | ✅ nuxi
Static sites             | ✅             | ✅               | 🚧

Commit message:

docs: add project roadmap (#3448)
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>
Co-authored-by: Alexander Lichter <manniL@gmx.net>
Co-authored-by: Sébastien Chopin <seb@nuxtjs.com>

docs/content/1.getting-started/1.introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

Getting started with Nuxt 3 is straightforward.

::alert{type=warning icon=🚧}
Nuxt 3 is currently in beta, keep in mind that **it is not yet production-ready**.<br>
Thank you in advance for your understanding 💛 Check out the [roadmap](/community/roadmap) for more info.
::

## What is Nuxt?

If this is the first time you're learning about Nuxt or you want to get more familiar with Nuxt 3, we recommend you begin by reading the [Concepts section](/concepts).

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, please make sure you have installed the recommended setup.

* **Node.js**<sup>*</sup> (latest LTS version) 👉 [[Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)]
* **Visual Studio Code** 👉 [[Download](https://code.visualstudio.com/)]
* **Volar Extension** 👉 [[Download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=johnsoncodehk.volar)]
  * Either enable [**Take Over Mode**](https://github.com/johnsoncodehk/volar/discussions/471) (recommended)
  * ... or add **TypeScript Vue Plugin (Volar)** 👉 [[Download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=johnsoncodehk.vscode-typescript-vue-plugin)]

<sup>*</sup> If you already have Node.js installed, check with `node --version` that you are using `v14` or `v16`.

::alert{type=info}

If you have enabled **Take Over Mode** or installed the **TypeScript Vue Plugin (Volar)** you can disable generating the shim for `*.vue` files:

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    shim: false
  }
})
```

::

## Nuxt 3 or Bridge?

Next, decide whether to start from scratch or upgrade an existing Nuxt 2 project.

### Starting a fresh Nuxt project

::list{type=info}

* Enjoy using Vue 3
* All the new composables are available
* New templating system and conventions are enabled
::

::alert{icon=👉}
Checkout the [Installation section](/getting-started/installation).
::

### Migrating a Nuxt 2 project

If you have an existing Nuxt 2 project, we **strongly recommend** you begin by using Nuxt Bridge. This way you can try most new features while keeping breaking changes to a minimum.

::list{type=info}

* It's risk-free! You can always remove the module from your config
* Makes your project (almost) ready for Nuxt 3
* Enjoy new DX improvements without major rewrites for Vue 3
* Use Nitro engine for platform-agnostic and optimized deployments
* Help us stabilize Nuxt 3 and discover flaws
* Nuxt Bridge is more stable than Nuxt 3 at the moment
::

::alert{icon=👉}
Checkout the [Bridge installation section](/getting-started/bridge).
::

### ‍Comparison

In the table below, there is a quick comparison between 3 versions of Nuxt:

Feature / Version        | Nuxt 2          | Nuxt Bridge      | Nuxt 3
-------------------------|-----------------|------------------|---------
Vue                      | 2               | 2                | 3
Stability                | 😊 Stable      | 😌 Semi-stable   | 😬 Unstable
Performance              | 🏎 Fast        | ✈️ Faster        | 🚀 Fastest
Nitro Engine             | ❌             | ✅               | ✅
ESM support              | 🌙 Partial     | 👍 Better        | ✅
TypeScript               | ☑️ Opt-in      | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Composition API          | ❌             | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Options API              | ✅             | ✅               | ✅
Components Auto Import   | ✅             | ✅               | ✅
`<script setup>` syntax  | ❌             | 🚧 Partial       | ✅
Auto Imports             | ❌             | ✅               | ✅
Webpack                  | 4              | 4                | 5
Vite                     | ⚠️ Partial     | 🚧 Partial       | 🚧 Experimental
Nuxi CLI                 | ❌ Old         | ✅ nuxi          | ✅ nuxi
Static sites             | ✅             | ✅               | 🚧
