docs/content/1.getting-started/5.seo-meta.md, before:

# SEO and Meta

Out-of-the-box, Nuxt provides good default values for `charset` and `viewport` meta tags, but you can override these if you need to, as well as customize other meta tags for your site in several different ways.

:ReadMore{link="/api/configuration/nuxt.config#head"}

## `useHead` Composable

Within your `setup` function, you can call `useHead` with an object of meta properties with keys corresponding to meta tags: `title`, `titleTemplate`, `base`, `script`, `noscript`, `style`, `meta` and `link`, as well as `htmlAttrs` and `bodyAttrs`. There are also two shorthand properties, `charset` and `viewport`, which set the corresponding meta tags. Alternatively, you can pass a function returning the object for reactive metadata.

For example:

```vue
<script setup>
useHead({
  title: 'My App',
  // or, instead:
  // titleTemplate: (title) => `My App - ${title}`,
  viewport: 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1',
  charset: 'utf-8',
  meta: [
    { name: 'description', content: 'My amazing site.' }
  ],
  bodyAttrs: {
    class: 'test'
  }
})
</script>
```

::ReadMore{link="/api/composables/use-head"}
::

## Title Templates

You can use the `titleTemplate` option to provide a dynamic template for customizing the title of your site, for example, by adding the name of your site to the title of every page.

The `titleTemplate` can either be a string, where `%s` is replaced with the title, or a function. If you want to use a function (for full control), then this cannot be set in your `nuxt.config`, and it is recommended instead to set it within your `app.vue` file, where it will apply to all pages on your site:

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup>
  useHead({
    titleTemplate: (titleChunk) => {
      return titleChunk ? `${titleChunk} - Site Title` : 'Site Title';
    }
  })
</script>
```

Now, if you set the title to `My Page` with `useHead` on another page of your site, the title would appear as 'My Page - Site Title' in the browser tab. You could also pass `null` to default to the site title.

## Body Meta Tags

You can use the `body: true` option on the `link` and `script` meta tags to append them to the end of the `<body>` tag.

For example:

```vue
<script setup>
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      src: 'https://third-party-script.com',
      body: true
    }
  ]
})
</script>
```

## Meta Components

Nuxt provides `<Title>`, `<Base>`, `<Script>`, `<NoScript>`, `<Style>`, `<Meta>`, `<Link>`, `<Body>`, `<Html>` and `<Head>` components so that you can interact directly with your metadata within your component's template.

Because these component names match native HTML elements, it is very important that they are capitalized in the template.

`<Head>` and `<Body>` can accept nested meta tags (for aesthetic reasons) but this has no effect on _where_ the nested meta tags are rendered in the final HTML.

For example:

<!-- @case-police-ignore html -->

```vue{}[app.vue]
<script setup>
const title = ref('Hello World')
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Head>
      <Title>{{ title }}</Title>
      <Meta name="description" :content="title" />
      <Style type="text/css" children="body { background-color: green; }" />
    </Head>

    <h1>{{ title }}</h1>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Example: Usage With `definePageMeta`

Within your `pages/` directory, you can use `definePageMeta` along with `useHead` to set metadata based on the current route.

For example, you can first set the current page title (this is extracted at build time via a macro, so it can't be set dynamically):

```vue{}[pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup>
definePageMeta({
  title: 'Some Page'
})
</script>
```

And then in your layout file, you might use the route's metadata you have previously set:

```vue{}[layouts/default.vue]
<script setup>
const route = useRoute()

useHead({
  meta: [{ name: 'og:title', content: `App Name - ${route.meta.title}` }]
})
</script>
```

:LinkExample{link="/examples/composables/use-head"}

:ReadMore{link="/guide/directory-structure/pages/#page-metadata"}

Commit message:

docs: use nuxt 3 and website theme (#5479)
Co-authored-by: Daniel Roe <daniel@roe.dev>
Co-authored-by: Sébastien Chopin <seb@nuxtjs.com>
Co-authored-by: Pooya Parsa <pooya@pi0.io>
Co-authored-by: pooya parsa <pyapar@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Clément Ollivier <clement.o2p@gmail.com>

docs/content/1.getting-started/5.seo-meta.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: uil:file-search-alt
description: Nuxt provides good default values for meta tags, but you can override these if you need to.
---

# SEO and Meta

Out-of-the-box, Nuxt provides good default values for `charset` and `viewport` meta tags, but you can override these if you need to, as well as customize other meta tags for your site in several different ways.

:ReadMore{link="/api/configuration/nuxt.config#head"}

## `useHead` Composable

Within your `setup` function, you can call `useHead` with an object of meta properties with keys corresponding to meta tags: `title`, `titleTemplate`, `base`, `script`, `noscript`, `style`, `meta` and `link`, as well as `htmlAttrs` and `bodyAttrs`. There are also two shorthand properties, `charset` and `viewport`, which set the corresponding meta tags. Alternatively, you can pass a function returning the object for reactive metadata.

For example:

```vue
<script setup>
useHead({
  title: 'My App',
  // or, instead:
  // titleTemplate: (title) => `My App - ${title}`,
  viewport: 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1',
  charset: 'utf-8',
  meta: [
    { name: 'description', content: 'My amazing site.' }
  ],
  bodyAttrs: {
    class: 'test'
  }
})
</script>
```

::ReadMore{link="/api/composables/use-head"}
::

## Title Templates

You can use the `titleTemplate` option to provide a dynamic template for customizing the title of your site, for example, by adding the name of your site to the title of every page.

The `titleTemplate` can either be a string, where `%s` is replaced with the title, or a function. If you want to use a function (for full control), then this cannot be set in your `nuxt.config`, and it is recommended instead to set it within your `app.vue` file, where it will apply to all pages on your site:

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup>
  useHead({
    titleTemplate: (titleChunk) => {
      return titleChunk ? `${titleChunk} - Site Title` : 'Site Title';
    }
  })
</script>
```

Now, if you set the title to `My Page` with `useHead` on another page of your site, the title would appear as 'My Page - Site Title' in the browser tab. You could also pass `null` to default to the site title.

## Body Meta Tags

You can use the `body: true` option on the `link` and `script` meta tags to append them to the end of the `<body>` tag.

For example:

```vue
<script setup>
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      src: 'https://third-party-script.com',
      body: true
    }
  ]
})
</script>
```

## Meta Components

Nuxt provides `<Title>`, `<Base>`, `<Script>`, `<NoScript>`, `<Style>`, `<Meta>`, `<Link>`, `<Body>`, `<Html>` and `<Head>` components so that you can interact directly with your metadata within your component's template.

Because these component names match native HTML elements, it is very important that they are capitalized in the template.

`<Head>` and `<Body>` can accept nested meta tags (for aesthetic reasons) but this has no effect on _where_ the nested meta tags are rendered in the final HTML.

For example:

<!-- @case-police-ignore html -->

```vue{}[app.vue]
<script setup>
const title = ref('Hello World')
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Head>
      <Title>{{ title }}</Title>
      <Meta name="description" :content="title" />
      <Style type="text/css" children="body { background-color: green; }" />
    </Head>

    <h1>{{ title }}</h1>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Example: Usage With `definePageMeta`

Within your `pages/` directory, you can use `definePageMeta` along with `useHead` to set metadata based on the current route.

For example, you can first set the current page title (this is extracted at build time via a macro, so it can't be set dynamically):

```vue{}[pages/some-page.vue]
<script setup>
definePageMeta({
  title: 'Some Page'
})
</script>
```

And then in your layout file, you might use the route's metadata you have previously set:

```vue{}[layouts/default.vue]
<script setup>
const route = useRoute()

useHead({
  meta: [{ name: 'og:title', content: `App Name - ${route.meta.title}` }]
})
</script>
```

:LinkExample{link="/examples/composables/use-head"}

:ReadMore{link="/guide/directory-structure/pages/#page-metadata"}
