docs/content/2.guide/5.deploy/1.node-server.md, before:

# Node.js Server

Discover the Node.js server preset with Nitro to deploy on any Node hosting.

::list

- **Default output format** if none is specified or auto-detected <br>
- Loads only the required chunks to render the request for optimal cold start timing <br>
- Useful for deploying Nuxt apps to any Node.js hosting
::

## Entry Point

When running `nuxt build` with the Node server preset, the result will be an entry point that launches a ready-to-run Node server.

```bash
node .output/server/index.mjs
```

## Example

```bash
$ node .output/server/index.mjs
Listening on http://localhost:3000
```

## Configuring Defaults at Runtime

This preset will respect the following runtime environment variables:

- `NITRO_PORT` or `PORT` (defaults to `3000`)
- `NITRO_HOST` or `HOST` (defaults to `'0.0.0.0'`)
- `NITRO_SSL_CERT` and `NITRO_SSL_KEY` - if both are present, this will launch the server in HTTPS mode. In the vast majority of cases, this should not be used other than for testing, and the Nitro server should be run behind a reverse proxy like nginx or Cloudflare which terminates SSL.

### Using PM2

To use `pm2`, use an `ecosystem.config.js`:

```js [ecosystem.config.js]
module.exports = {
  apps: [
    {
      name: 'NuxtAppName',
      exec_mode: 'cluster',
      instances: 'max',
      script: './.output/server/index.mjs'
    }
  ]
}
```

## Learn More

:ReadMore{link="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/node" title="the Nitro documentation for node-server preset"}

Commit message:

docs(deploy): add node cluster mode (#7089)
Co-authored-by: Pooya Parsa <pooya@pi0.io>

docs/content/2.guide/5.deploy/1.node-server.md, after:

# Node.js Server

Discover the Node.js server preset with Nitro to deploy on any Node hosting.

::list

- **Default output format** if none is specified or auto-detected <br>
- Loads only the required chunks to render the request for optimal cold start timing <br>
- Useful for deploying Nuxt apps to any Node.js hosting
::

## Entry Point

When running `nuxt build` with the Node server preset, the result will be an entry point that launches a ready-to-run Node server.

```bash
node .output/server/index.mjs
```

## Example

```bash
$ node .output/server/index.mjs
Listening on http://localhost:3000
```

## Configuring Defaults at Runtime

This preset will respect the following runtime environment variables:

- `NITRO_PORT` or `PORT` (defaults to `3000`)
- `NITRO_HOST` or `HOST` (defaults to `'0.0.0.0'`)
- `NITRO_SSL_CERT` and `NITRO_SSL_KEY` - if both are present, this will launch the server in HTTPS mode. In the vast majority of cases, this should not be used other than for testing, and the Nitro server should be run behind a reverse proxy like nginx or Cloudflare which terminates SSL.

### Using PM2

To use `pm2`, use an `ecosystem.config.js`:

```js [ecosystem.config.js]
module.exports = {
  apps: [
    {
      name: 'NuxtAppName',
      exec_mode: 'cluster',
      instances: 'max',
      script: './.output/server/index.mjs'
    }
  ]
}
```

### Using Cluster Mode

You can use `NITRO_PRESET=node_cluster` in order to leverage multi-process performance using Node.js [cluster](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/cluster.html) module.

By default, the workload gets distributed to the workers with the round robin strategy.

## Learn More

:ReadMore{link="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/node" title="the Nitro documentation for node-server preset"}
